---
title: "Why I Blog"
subtitle: "And Why You Should Too!"
description: "How to use blogging as a powerful tool for job seeking, learning, critical thinking, self-motivation and accountability"
image: "/assets/images/pexels-photo-24193.jpg"
tags:
    - blogging
    - thinking
    - learning
    - motivation
---

I have a confession to make: despite my background in information technology and my interest in creative writing, I've avoided blogging for years, firm in my belief that it's just another online marketing fad! Yet here I am embracing the blogging phenomenon in 2017... Why?

I'm not going to lie: my decision to embrace the blogging phenomenon was in response to a marketing need, so maybe it IS just another online marketing fad after all. That said, my marketing need is not one of mass advertising for product promotion unlike so many others. No, I need to market MYSELF now that I've found myself re-entering the job market after eight years of gainful employment.

In that respect, blogging is my way of establishing my personal profile and giving prospective employers an insight into who I am and what I am capable of. There's even a little part of me that delights in the idea that maybe one day soon I will receive an email from a potential employer offering me a job because they've enjoyed reading some of my blog posts and appreciate the skills that I have been able to showcase therein *(hey, we can all dream)*...

As I embark on this journey though, it occurs to me that there are many other reasons to get into blogging regardless of your employment status, your professional background or your extra-curricular interests. Believe it or not, none of the reasons that come to mind have anything to do with online marketing, advertising or promotion!

## Learning via The Feynman Technique

*The Feynman Technique* is a popular mental model designed to help anybody learn almost anything. Students are encouraged to take notes on the subject matter being studied, distilling the core concepts of the subject matter down to such a basic form that those notes could then be used to teach the subject matter to another student.

It seems to me that blogging is a great way to put *The Feynman Technique* into practice, with benefits not just for the initial student and anybody they have direct contact with, but for society as a whole! With the universal reach and equally global accessibility of search engines, the ability to share in-depth knowledge of complex subject matter in a way that the masses can understand is a priviledge that we can all embrace.

Accordingly, my plan is to use this blog as my own contribution to global learning through my application of *The Feynman Technique* via blog posts as I discover and explore new skills and abilities.

## Zen-like Clarity

Although my interest in creative writing is a product of my active imagination and the creative juices that flow constantly through my bloodstream, it is an interest that has an undeniable benefit: the promotion of critical thinking. There are very few authors out there who can simply sit down and write a novel from start to finish without planning the plot and characters first. Even with a plan, things don't always work out the way the author expects: seemingly unrelated elements of the plot or character development can impact each other in quirky ways, whether they are separated by a single sentence or by several thousand words. Resolving such issues in creative writing strengthens an author's critical thinking abilities both on and off the page!

I get the impression that the same could be said of blogging, except that the thinking to be structured and the issues to be resolved are those that can be found in real life and the real world. By writing about our plans for future projects and activities in blog posts, and similarly by writing through the issues and setbacks (and successes) that we encounter as we embark on those projects, we strengthen our own critical thinking abilities just as an author does whilst writing their way through a creative writing plan.

Accordingly, my plan is to use this blog as my own exercise in critical thinking, by writing through the ideas, plans, issues, setbacks and successes that I encounter, whether they be related to creativity, technology, business or life in general.

## Self-Motivation and Accountability

With so many external stimuli competing for our attention in an increasingly connected world, it can often be hard to focus on what is important at any given moment. This is especially true when you are self-employed or unemployed and working alone, without a hard deadline looming and an employer looking over your shoulder repeatedly demanding results five minutes ago. How can we combat the allure of distracting external stimuli when the only sense of accountability that we have is to ourselves?

If you are already using your blog to achieve 'zen-like clarity' through critical thinking *(see above)*, then you are already sharing your immediate ideas and plans with the world. By sharing such information with your readers, you are unlocking another benefit beyond structured thinking: you become accountable to your readers in addition to yourself! Build on this sense of public accountability by following up on blog posts about ideas and plans with subsequent blog posts that give detailed status reports and updates on the enuing projects and activities.

Accordingly, my plan is to use this blog as a source of self-motivation and accountability, by publishing regular status reports and updates on the various personal projects and activities that I undertake.

## Writing Your Own Legacy

Although I began this post with an assertion that blogging was the stuff of sleazy online marketers, I am well aware that there are millions of personal blogs out there (this one included) that could be likened to the author's open journal without any hint of advertising or promotion. These kinds of blogs capture life stories, immortalising their authors in the bits and bytes occupying their corner of the web for as long as the Internet continues to exist. That's pretty powerful stuff!

How does this realisation, that your blog is a major part of your eternal digital legacy, affect your approach to blogging? Will you allow your true personality (you know, the one that people see when they're not looking at your through a webcam) to shine through the words, images and videos that you publish? Is your ability to write about clean code that overcomes some obscure programming challenge more important than what you feel in your heart, mind and soul each and every day? Do you want everybody to remember the mask that you wore to look professional as you climbed the corporate ladder, or would you prefer people to remember the real you behind the mask?

With this in mind, my plan is to use this blog to give the world a glimpse into my life (both online and offline) as lived by the real me, by allowing my true personality to shine through in everything I publish, and by balancing the many facets of my being through the content that I write. Who knows what I will learn about myself in the process...
